you know it used to be that when
somebody smiled somewhere in their mouth
you'd catch the sight of metal
well that doesn't have to happen anymore
at least not if dentists like dr. Peter
man
can help it dentists they no longer put
metal in any of my crowns there's just
absolutely no need for these days forget
the gold crowns or the more recent
porcelain on top of metal
state-of-the-art crowns are now made
from a piece of ceramic block called
Sarah and we use a milling unit to mill
this out first we design it on the
software and then we send it to
basically a 3d printer that uses diamond
burs and water
Marissa works for mobile tech dental lab
just upstairs from man's Midtown
Manhattan office right after a dentist
takes their impressions the lab takes
over and that's part of what makes the
whole process so fast traditionally we
have to wait two weeks till we get a
crown back we sent to the lab and that
will have to cast the metal and make
porcelain to go on top of it
Nonnie more forget walking around for
weeks with a temporary that could break
or fall out and remember no more metal
we then use the impression to make a
model with this model we're then able to
take our 3d scanner and this wand is
actually a camera and then we scan the
upper teeth as well and then we scan the
bite and that's how we're able to use
computer-aided software to create these
crowns the machine will mill the crown
which will be ready in just hours
instead of weeks
that's what appealed to dr. Marcus
Johnson he himself is a root canal
specialist one day he recently needed a
crown I was kind of biting down on
something harder than I felt a sharp
pain and automatic I knew this was a
problem open
it's perfect very good he met with dr.
Mann a colleague and went with the CEREC
crown as an endodontist after every root
canal I perform I always recommend to my
patients that they need to get a full
coverage restoration or crown just this
experience with Zurich has been
phenomenal because not only is it a
solid restoration but in addition it's
very aesthetic and the fact that I can
you know come in the same day maybe come
back within a few hours and then leave
with a beautiful crown I mean it's just
kind of speaks for itself plus patients
could even meet with the lab techs to
get the color just right the crafting of
the Crown has dentists and patients
describing lab techs like Marissa as an
artist yes that's that's what drew me
into this into this field it's great
because you're creating little works of
art that people get to you know wear all
the time everyone wants to present
themselves with their best foot forward
and oftentimes that starts with a smile
that's right it starts with a smile